---
layout: page
title: More maps, advanced auto refine, automated data
---

### Tutorials

* [Some advanced data work in Open Refine](http://andrewbtran.github.io/JRN-418/class8/openrefine_advanced/)
* [Another way to make a Choropleth map](http://andrewbtran.github.io/JRN-418/class10/choropleth/)
* [Gathering data by using IFTTT](http://andrewbtran.github.io/JRN-418/class10/ifttt/)

### Assignments for Nov. 4

#### Send me a link of an interesting map from a news organization.
* Some possible sources: New York Times, The Guardian, NPR, Washington Post, Boston Globe
* Tell me why you think it's interesting
* What kind of map is it?
 * Choropleth? Dots? Something else experimental?
* What data did they use?

We'll talk about them in class on Wednesday so I need this by Tuesday night.

### Pitch for final story Nov. 4

What pitching a data story should entail (for this class and all future stories)

* FOCUS.
  * Write the lede of the story you would write if your project yields what you expect to find. 
  * What is the point of this project? 
  * If applicable, who or what is the target of this project? 
  * What new finding might this produce? 
  * Will it have an impact on readers? 
  * What might change as a result?
* SUMMARY. 
  * Roughly, outline the lede story you expect to find. 
  * Briefly, outline the package or series you anticipate this project might produce.
* DATA. 
  * List the documents or databases that will be used for the project. 
  * What do you expect the data to reveal? 
  * What legal or technical barriers stand between you and the data? (Note: Strong preference will be given to proposals for which key basic data is already in hand.)
* SOURCES. 
  * List the sources you expect to use in producing this story. 
  * Include people you think might provide background and perspective, people who have direct and/or expert knowledge of the subject, and people who are mostaffected by the issue at hand.
* TIME & MONEY. 
  * How much do you already know about this story? 
  * How long will it take to report this story? 
  * How long will it take to write this story? 
  * Are there any unusual costs associated with this story?
* VISUALIZATIONS. 
  * What possibilities are there for charts, maps, tables, or other interactives? 
  * Will this stand alone or be embedded within the flow of the story? 
  * What can you do on your own or what do you think you'll need to learn or get help with?
* IMPACT. 
  * Why do this story? 
  * Why do this story now? 
  * How is this story different from stories like it done in the past? 
  * What will this story accomplish?
* VICTIMS. 
  * Who is harmed by what's going on? 
  * How and why are they harmed?
* WINNERS. 
  * Who is profiting or benefiting from what's going on. 
  * Who and why?
* READERS. 
  * How will this story affect our readers? 
  * Will they read it? 